Let's look at the solution to the whole Spark exercise.
The requirements might have seemed straight forward, counting some strings,
but using Spark data frames can be a little bit
challenging at times to do some traditional operations.
Let's look at how it works.
The first thing we're going to do is create a variable
that references the home/workspace/Test.txt file.
That might look familiar from the earlier work sheet that I did.
I'm going to create a variable that stores the full path to the file called
logFile because a lot of times that's what we're parsing, is log files.
I'm going to create a Spark session,
and the way I'm going do that is using
the SparkSession class that I imported above, right here.
It will be important to remember that,
when you're writing your own Spark application that
you want to make sure and import that class.
I'm going to take the SparkSession.
I'm going to access the builder on it,
and then I'm going to invoke the appName method.
I'm going to call getOrCreate to create my session.
Now, a lot of times Spark is verbose,
so we're going to just take the log level down.
Now, I'm going to read in the file.
Let's create a variable called logData.
That's actually a data frame.
We're using data frames.
There is the data frame, logData.
Now, we're going to create some variables to track.
We're going to instantiate those at zero,
and then we're going to do something a little interesting.
We're going to create some functions.
The first function I'm going to make,
it's just called countA.
It accepts a row as an input.
That's a row from a data frame.
Now I'm going to access the global variable that I instantiate earlier.
I'm going to increment the counter for every time I see the letter A in that row.
As I increment it on each data frame row,
so think about it, every row there is in the data frame,
will end up calling this function.
This print statement will get called how many times?
Let's see if we look at the file,
there we've five lines in that file,
and that means it's going to be printing five times.
I'm just going to do a quick print command,
and then I'm going to define the count for
the letter B. I'm going to call that def countB.
It accepts a row as well.
We're going to reference the global count for that.
We're going to increment as well.
Again, we're just incrementing it by the row.value.count,
and we're counting B on that row of the data frame.
That should get called five times as well.
Now, what I'm going do is I'm going to call for each on the data frame.
I'm going to save forEach and now I'm parsing the function.
How many times will it print?
It will print five times and I'll see the A count go up.
Well, I want do the same thing for B. What should I do?
I should do the same thing again,
but call parsing the countB function.
Last, I'm going to stop Spark so that the whole thing can finish.
I'm going to save that file.
I need to make sure Spark is running,
so the command I like to use is ps -ef.
I do not see Spark running anywhere here.
I don't see the word Spark.
In order to get it running,
I've got to do something about that.
I'm going to change to the Spark sbin folder.
I'm going to run start-master.
I've now got a handle to the log file.
I'm going to copy that.
If I do this too quickly,
I'll actually catch the log before it's done writing.
But if I pause a second like I just did, I'll see this.
That's the URI for the spark master.
Now, I'm going to run start-worker and I'm going to call this URI.
Now, if I do ps -ef,
I now see two lines that are running Spark.
You might only see that Java part,
but Spark runs in a Java Runtime.
We're going to just type clear to move up the terminal for view-ability.
Now, I'm back up to the top of the terminal.
Oh, and it looks like I did forget the print statement for the total B count.
Let's put that in.
There we go. Now, I'm going to save the Python file
and now I'm going to run the Spark application.
I'm going to change to the home/workspace/spark/bin folder and I'm going to
run./spark-submit and then I'm going to give
it the full path to the hellospark Python script.
This is what we see when we're waiting for the output usually and it's not happy.
Let's see, line 40,
logData.forEach object has no attribute forEach.
Of course, I did it in the wrong case,
so forEach should just be like this.
I'm going to update that file.
I'm going to save it and then again I'm going to do
spark-submit full path to the Python file rather.
Now, here's where we wait for the output.
This can take up to two minutes when we're running larger computations. There we go.
Let's see how we did,
so the A shows a total count of six.
If we open up the file,
let's see what we've got.
We have, "Hello everyone this is the test text file we would like to parse."
There's an A that's one.
Then there's another A that's two, that's three,
that's four, that's five,
and I'm sure there's a sixth one that I'm missing somewhere in here.
"Hello everyone this is the test text file we would like to parse," 1,
2, 3, 4, 5,
6. There we go.
That is a little tricky compared to what we're used to doing.
With loops in Python,
we normally can access data directly.
With Spark, we actually have to tell the data frame what to do and let it do it.
The way we did that in this case is by defining a function
and then telling it to do that on the data that was contained inside of the data frame.
It's a little different than what we're used to doing,
and so data streaming can be a new way of thinking about solving data problems.
But it's fun and you can do a lot of really cool stuff with it.